Something, huh?
How many meters of oak do you think you've purchased?
You must have a figure for that.
There's a figure for the amount of oak.
I think it's done in cubies.
Oh, that's it.
I mean, it's actually also a figure.
I mean, it's a very similar, but I thought you heard that it was a bit less difficult about how you completely
In making the bricks, it was totally closed.
It's a slate, that's right.
That's why they've got green and you've got the gray.
They actually used up all available at the time.
They did that when they were building the state capital in Albany, New York.
They wiped out a quarry.
Back behind the scenes, the nice thing is that the wood and the whole materials that are carried through, we don't have... I mean, yes, there's a slight standard or anything, but on the whole, this is the building where the staff are met to appreciate the building as much as... This is the mechanical book handling system.
Oh, OK.
Very nice today.
Connie, this is the mechanical book handling system.
It goes from basement four, the very top of the building,
I've still yet to get an exact figure on how long the book is.
It's between six and eight miles long.
Wow.
And this area here is where books go onto the system, and the area just behind us there is where books come off the system, and it works via a series of barcodes.
So a reader will order their book, which will generate tickets
and in the basement area, saying who the book's going to, which area of the basement it is in, in two parts.
Then part of the ticket goes onto the shelf, part of the ticket goes into the book, and then the books are placed into red boxes, and the destination where they're going to is read via a light pen, and everything goes onto the system.
The boxes never turn upside down until it's via a series of cantilever lifts,
and everything goes through basement two, which is like the sorting junction, so that this side of the building arrives here and the other side in the science area.
So as Jane was saying, we're going with high usage stock and low usage stock.
For the first time we'll have some idea of what is high usage and what is low usage by the information that we get from the ordering system.
can you specifically explain that you can log into the computer to look up
whatever catalog record you might be looking for.
And you can place your order at that time online.
That's wonderful.
And that message then can be transmitted down to the basement where it becomes then a printed out ticket for manual collection and placing into the container.
If rare books manuscripts and other material won't go through this system.
Are you going to retain the same British Library classification system, or is it going to be a barcoded-based system over here?
It's what we use for, yes, but we've had to change all of these shelf models, because the new locations we've built.
When you say classifications, it's interesting because our collections for some time have been placed by sequence of arrival and five rather than by any kind of subject classification within the storage.
The 19th century storage is of course still based on an old subject classification scheme which remains but was then added on to in a random sequence.
If we request the book, it's going to be located by barcode, not by the classification system.
It will have a shelf mark on it.
But the barcodes are for the direction of where the books are going to go, where it's going to be delivered to and where it's going to pass it all.
Where we use our shelf marks, where it's going to say where something was and what it was.
will be independent of the... I see.
That's what I was basically asking.
I think what this also ensures is not only rapid retrieval, but also probably pretty rapid reshelving.
It should do.
You know, just how often do you ask for a book and find itself, and it's taken five days to get back on the shelf again, or longer?
One might hope that it'll get back much more quickly in this.
We've got to recognize people to intervene.
That's right.
So there are lifts through this door here, where the material will be brought straight from the basements.
When we're in the exhibition gallery, that middle area, in the treasures gallery, is where the lift chart is.
So this is really the key area where the books come from, down below or wherever.
And they will all pass through here.
And when the book arrives at the inquiry desk,
member of staff can press a button and at the reader's desk it says please go to issue desk and the little light comes on your book's arrived that's great and what do we formally call this room again book delivery i'd imagine we can name it right now if you want i'm teasing
You've already been generous with your time.
You're so kind, I know you're very busy.
I'm glad we were able to arrange for you to see
A range of people, so you could get a few of the fun.
Well, I plan to come back.
This is the first exploratory trip, really.
You know how these books run.
You go and you get the ambiance, and then you go back and you listen to your tapes, and then you develop your... Well, then you have to... I mean, they never end, otherwise.
I mean, you've got an end date, obviously, which is a good thing to do.
Well, I know.
My last book took eight years, and I can't do this one.
If I do that, I can't.
It took too long.
It's really important for this book to be published in late 1999.
We could write a story about this.
Excuse me.
the builders were very good they used to write on the on the levels where you were it's hard to imagine now isn't it how difficult it will only you had to wear wellingtons and hard hats and um thanks oh isn't that nice see that's isn't that now who thought of that yeah really
a very nice little detail for that kind of thing.
I think British craftsmanship is really being brought to bear throughout the structure.
I know that's ridiculous, but I love to see this wooden cover.
I mean, it didn't have to be.
It could have been metallic.
That's right.
But it'd be really nice to see it.
And it should get covered with dust.
Some of the sacred dust of it.
Wow.
Don't feel that you have to stay with me.
No, please.
I can call.
I can get in touch.
One thing I might ask, do you have any...
The folders of literature that you could send?
Yeah, absolutely.
Will you maybe ask Annette to send a... Yeah, sure.
And I love a lot of material, so you don't have to... I mean, you don't have to... Something like that one, which had all the statistics... All the stuff.
How many miles of... News releases, anything that you have that would help you.
I know you have to go, why don't you?
I think we should, actually, I think we've kept the hat.
Do you think they're preparing for this?
It's quite worth waiting for a second, you see.
So I think it's possible that Sandy will be, and that's his wife and Jane, who is over.
Who are all these people who are basically the architecture?
Most of the people here are both the architecture.
People who have been associated anyway with the construction of the project.
So in order to deal with who from the library did you ask?
We said only the people who have actually been involved in the development of the project.
Otherwise it's the right way.
And who are these two gentlemen over here?
These up up there and up to the top over there.
Somebody obviously... It looks like they're prominent.
They're involved in the...
So to sort of set the scene, this is basically an unveiling of the King's...
They all seem to be anticipating something.
They're all poised.
I think we're in the best position here.
Amazing.
It's very nice for me to see how this space will work with lots of people, and I'm taking every opportunity to see people.
See, they're coordinating.
He's giving a signal over there.
Where do you begin to do it?
I love you.
Thank you.
I'm delighted to welcome you here today on the part of the Department of Natural Heritage, which has been a moment and as possible for at this stage in the building.
The project is one of the things which is my goal, and I hope the past 18 months has been leading to the progress which has been very important.
We can begin to see how we can do it.
Even if you believe in the world where the world is more powerful than the world is more powerful than the world is more powerful than the world is more powerful than the world.
Thank you.
I would like to mention a few reasons why there was the A.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P.P
I'd like to thank you very much for your satisfaction.
I have this wonderful pleasure to be with you today as well.
I'd like to thank you all for the part of this Delphine's name which I mentioned.
Particularly to mention what's from the name of it.
Jim Hayden, a short project manager.
James Clayton, director of Casey Young, and David Clayton, project director.
Particularly, particularly, I'd like to welcome Professor Sutherland, who's certainly a bit 30 years ago today, and myself and so, just to look at them before they've been here at 30 years.
And I'd like to ask you, to join you, which is a happy birthday to the round of applause of those 60 people.
I expect that many of you will see the faith entitled Six Phases of Approaching.
Phase 1, enthusiasm.
Phase 2, disillusionment.
Phase 3, disillusionment.
Phase 4, search for guilty.
Phase 5, punishment of the innocent.
Phase 6, praise the non-participants.
I feel like I've known participants, or at least many of participants in the business,
My brother David really should be here, and this contract is his responsibility.
He has given an excuse to see if he is in Beijing in China and the love to the same place.
He has also asked me to give you the very best wishes.
Now when I speak today, I thought that once you're always into the church, and yesterday I heard a story about the library.
The man who went into the library and said, have you ever known certain sizes?
The librarian said, well, it's good, the shelf is over there on the shelf on the right.
And if you wanted to save yourself, the books were over there on the shelf on the left.
So he went there, and he came back after a bit.
And he said, was your attention?
I mean, my brother said, Mr. Charles, he'd never bring me back.
No, no, no.
Now, the previous slide is that all of the special characters in the media who love to sell a little differently for a disaster.
And this is for a lecture this week, who suggested that the thing to do was to start a newspaper that took apart all the bad news in other newspaper magazines.
He shows a slide in the headline for a child in life with a bad diagnosis.
pointed out that they were unhealthy, thousands of goods, and indeed freezes with Diagnosis on the same day that they don't have nationals.
We thought that they would be great to say that people don't breathe about something that can take someone else apart.
However, it has really been very quiet on the media plans, on our part, the structure of the Diagnosis, which is a kind of backhanded promise.
It's really very decisive to have the opportunity to build a building with such high quality and which may last a thousand years.
And I do congratulate the architect and the design team on the job that they've done.
It's very easy to criticise the architect's design system until you start to try and focus on it.
building it and making the island the following story will all illustrate.
On one of our jobs we had two people who came obviously went there and so the portman was delegated to interview these people and the person was there and he said to him, how many bricks could you lay in line?
My father said, well, I'm not going to lay out the rest of that.
But he said, observations are very important.
He said, now look at me, can you see anything strange about me?
So he looked, he looked, he looked, and he mentioned, he said, what is it?
What is it?
And the informant says, yes, we will.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And the third fellow came in and he said, well, how do we do that?
He said, well, I know 2,000.
It's not a place where they've got a couple of days left.
Well, probably two and a half months.
And he said, well, I'm a nation very important.
And he said, it's very hard about me.
And he said, yes.
He said, you're wearing a contract jacket.
I would like to congratulate all of the consultants who have done a great job and will have not paid their job to just deserve it in true force.
As in me, we trust the people.
But I would like to congratulate everyone who has been involved with this remarkable building.
And finally, I would like to wish great success at the Climbing and all the new workers.
May all the systems work they should do, may all the people do problems with their minds, and may we bring you big up and need another one.
Mr. President, thank you very much.
Thank you very much, Mr. President.
I'm the chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief chief
It's a great building.
It's a great library.
In months to come, there are more and more campaigns for this.
Those who have not been responsible for this project will stand for this to take place.
But your interest is that you have to be responsible for this project.
We have to all be involved in any direction that makes it possible.
You want to begin today.
Thank you.
We may acknowledge it, but we thought that was a nation to make our lives as well.
We want to recall, then, the principle that when the memorandum of course has received us, the policy has remained.
I need to know this, though, that is one of us in many ways, not just in the vision of the San Diego, but also in the experience.
And San Diego, you don't need to be able to be alive.
Today, I expect it to be possible new friends, possible old friends.
People who have been involved in building a fire about six years ago, from the next time I came to
Let us say, the importance of this bill is going on a level of today.
Not complete, let's work out.
What is the implication?
As you all stand here today, all the teams are mixed up.
I can't tell my team from the other team.
And so we continue to offer all the teams that we need to find.
As I hope so far, I thank you so much for all those guys.
And I get it on two minutes.
We don't know who's going to be around here, so this is not the job.
So far, it's three years ago.
And so far, it's three years ago.
Thank you.
For a long time now, we've been sharing the truth to the people around this individual state.
And I'm enjoying saying to you this time, I'm enjoying seeing something again today.
Well, it went a long time before all the people lived
I think, as Brown suggested just now, this is a moving age of water flows.
It's a huge logistic exercise, beside which Marley and Marley are peanuts.
And yesterday, the use of the reading boards will be able to read this, the first of them, November.
I want the event today to be an internal family celebration, and therefore, frequently, personally, not just to me, but thank you very much for that kind thing, but to all the things, people who've been on site were to care for.
All the information
updating the first stage of the building.
As we present that edition, there's a marking in the way of my friends and colleagues, which is standard and medical.
I never speak on behalf of the whole society,
My partners, partners of the United States, speaking of God in your kind, and its lack of everything, when I own my own thanks to the various individuals on site and the troops that they work with, who have sustained what I believe to be the highest standard
across the region of the region of the region.
Firstly, from the Columbine King, the site of the King, so forcibly being done by Dr. Charles, very closely, Brown and Older, who spent the time on the one year, who did Mr. Doris, and Trevor Fox, all the people that were made today.
Secondly, the Amherst was a team of trolls, and a very different people in the capital of St.
Mary.
And thirdly, it was the National Heritage Project, and the hard-riding and stealing of all things in the country.
This building has been designed for us to return for a thousand years of fact-changing stress.
At least, the nearest thing to the construction of many of the people in our time, none of that,
I must, yeah.
And all of those who have brought that everything to give you skill and commitment, and some people have helped a lot of those who make this easy.
That can have given very special value satisfaction.
I hope you will tell our children to tell their great children, great grandchildren, to tell their great grandchildren, to tell their great grandchildren, that my great-great-granddad has said in his building.
and get away from it.
Finally, I would like to thank the Shilling Friends of Jesus, the ingenious and good human way in which they stage the celebration and the sacred God, which it is my own very special honour to launch by being the digital talking out of my bell.
Therefore, I would like more ado, after the stage of this,
That's wonderful.
It's wonderful.
This is a real tree, I have to tell you.
I would never ask the real look of it.
Here.
This is an unbelievable thing.
It is.
Well, it was just my time that you were here at this time.
I'm lucky.
This is going to make its way into this building that's built for last 1,000 years in here.
What do we call this?
A ceremony?
Does it have a name or any of this?
No, we haven't given it.
It's a ceremony.
I'm very happy.
Why not?
Good.
Oh, my God.
This is such a treat.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
It was, you know, you talk about luck to be here on this day.
for building that is meant to last the library a thousand years, and there it's unveiled to the architect on the 75th birthday.
I mean, don't think I don't know how I'm starting this chapter.
Tough act to follow, Mark.
Right, well, this is the science reading room.
Very, very different in nature to when we were in rare books, which is reflected in the use of the open access shelves.
This is the reading room, as I said, which has got 18 kilometers
shelving in here.
It's over three levels.
This level is the Patents Collection.
The Patents Collection will be here.
The next level up is the Science and Technology Collection.
And the third level is the Business Information Service.
For the first time in the Library's history we will be bringing together the Science Collections.
The Science Collections grew out of the National Reference Library for Science and Invention.
It's been called the Patent Office Library in its original form, etc.
the Science Reference and Information Service.
Currently we have two reading rooms.
We have a physical sciences reading room and a life-earth medical sciences reading room.
They have their own unique cataloguing system completely independent of what happens in the humanities collections.
So if for example somebody is doing a project on food chemistry
If that's food chemistry which is affected biologically, for example, brewing, they would have to go to the Life, Earth and Medical Sciences Reading Room.
If it's food chemistry affected chemically, they have to go to the Hoban Reading Room, which is the Physical Sciences Reading Room.
So that makes one of those areas where we have crossovers, particularly in food,
in biochemistry, because you think biochemistry will be with the physical sciences in the chemistry area, but it's not because it's biological, in the biological standards.
But we'll be bringing together the cataloguing sequence into a continuous run.
Up there.
They keep the current 10 years of English language journals on open access shelving.
Down here.
That will be up on the next level.
This will be the patterns.
And the current year, or the current box of foreign language journals.
One of the things they've worked out is the facts that you pick up in the researches.
They said on average a science reader stays approximately 55 minutes.
They like to come into the library, go to a catalogue, check the title they want, go to the shelves in the last 10 years, retrieve it, go to a photocopy and leave.
And as I said, that's reflected in the amount of open access shelving here.
But again, the finishes are very high.
You notice that the desk leather in here is green as opposed to blue.
One of the folk walls is that a member of public, one of our readers, falls asleep.
They don't know which reading room they're in by the colour of the leather that is facing them.
We have some that are currently about between 32 and 35 million patents of specifications right the way throughout the world.
We can now order online and things are provided now and printed off by CD-ROMs.
We have a jukebox service, as it were.
And people do come to us to get copies in from the States of US patents.
They can get them quicker from the British Library than they can from the US.
That's a very large revenue generating service.
The business information service should be on the third level.
We currently house the current, the largest collection of market research reports on open access in Western Europe.
A very high usage collection through, because within London you have the London Business School, which is a private library, and the City Business Library, part of the corporation of London, and they're ours and not as long as the science collections are.
And the City Business Library, London Business School, as I said, is a private library.
But also with the use of new technology and CD-ROM facilities in the business area, they have market research reports and that material is now available on CD-ROM of course.
Science collections generally also have their own online search services where a reader will come in and depending on the budget will want to know if they've got a project or an area they're looking into.
the library will actually perform the search for them.
We charge the next number of pounds per minute.
While they're on, there's a basic charge for staff time.
The next number of pounds per minute online, and they're now downloading or printing out and all that.
That's quite a large area which we go into.
We have an environmental information service, a chemical information service, a biological information service, and we have access to about three or four hundred different databases via that.
Do you have a special area for maps, charts?
Yes, there is the map library that will become part of the special collections area and the map library will be coming over here as well.
The largest part of the library that won't be coming here is the newspaper collection, which are based out of Collingdale.
It was never envisaged that that would be coming into this building.
The loading on the floors there had to be specifically built because of the weight of newspapers that were stored.
We do have a microfilming project for newspapers, etc.
I explained to you what I thought earlier, all the wiring systems below us are on a raised surface of about 5-6 inches and throughout there are various junction boxes.
All the air conditioning systems are above us.
And so once the wiring is open, there will be no trailing wires because we'll be able to lay wires and trailing wires underneath there will be no wires.
So in some ways the delays have benefited us with the growth of the new technology.
Write that in, so to speak.
We have availability, but not money to put an online catalogue onto every day.
But that'll come in time.
The open access stuff, so if I go and take out a journal, do I put it back or do I put it on a carrel?
We prefer to let the staff put it back.
Members of the public, the readers, do do that.
But of preference, we prefer then we know that at least 99% of our staff will get it back in the right box.
Because if there's a run of journals, and say for example we haven't bound the last three years because we haven't got to that part of the sequence, the box may say January to December 1995, but in there you'll find 1996 or 1997.
I worked in the science reading room on the inquiry desk for six years.
And naturally people believe what's written on the side of the box.
And so often you'd go up the stairs and say, well, have you been told?
Oh, yes, you have it.
And you instinctual note will go through and say, well, oh, I'm sorry.
But so in a sense, we will prefer to put the material back on the shelf.
Of course, that doesn't mean to say that readers will come in, they can be very selfish sometimes.
they'll want to use a particular book and we'll put it back where they know where it is and where nobody else can find it.
That happens often.
Which happens so often.
So often.
And also, as Jane was saying, the problems with mutilation.
People will come in and will find an issue of a journal and will tear out an article, raise a blade out an article.
Too lazy to go and spend the 10 cents or whatever else to make a discovery.
I think that would be hard to get away with here.
Unfortunately, where there's a will is a way, even for criminal activity.
Here, you'll notice we came through security gates.
That's because some of the material in the science area is actually security tagged.
In the market research, some of the market research reports cost well over a thousand pounds.
And some of the market research reports, et cetera, are sold to the library on commission.
We don't allow any photocopy of it.
And we have to very rigorously enforce that in that area.
Number two, pencil.
Exactly.
You know, because what could happen is somebody could be from Mintel and come in as a reader and say, oh, can I photograph music?
We say yes.
We can take our collection away from it.
Something that you paid a thousand pounds for.
And they won't ever sell to us again.
You know, we are a national library and we have a legal obligation to the users and to the publishers who
sell us their material and donate their material to us.
I love the craftsmanship, all the little touches that are so evident everywhere you go.
What we'll do is we'll cross through.
I thought we were coming out to the next level, but let us say, take advantage of the views that you're going to get as you walk through the bookstack.
Once we get books on them, you'll never see these angles.
That's right.
That's exactly right.
And once again, a once in a lifetime.
This is a facility built for a thousand years and you're looking at empty shelves.
And the views that you get through.
You know, you're right.
We'll always be able to come and see books.
You'll never be able to come and see empty shelves.
Yeah.
One of my favourite features in the building, nothing to do with the book, it's actually this staircase.
Wow.
We've just got, we've literally just got to make the whole come back down.
But this is one of the ways between all three readings.
You get this wonderful view here of what's going on.
Oh, look at that.
And this staircase right the way through and you can see
And this actually is opposite the main staircase in the station building and the hotel building, which is opposite of... What does the station building date to approximately?
It's Victorian.
So, middle of the last century, it's not just about 1850s, before then.
And you've got the same... And here you can see how the bricks... They match.
They really do, and look how well they... They just had a cleaning up.
They were cleaned in about...
The last couple of years, it was covered in scaffolding, etc., and they've just been sprayed.
You can see what it probably looked like over there, down by those portals.
Yes.
It's amazing.
There's still original features, original papers on the walls in there.
It's a stunning building, but the problem is with conversion of the building,
to make it fire worthy for evacuation procedures, putting you next to staircases and things like that, because of course it is a listed building.
Everything is going to be very different.
This area generally is an area, is a red light district, King's Cross, drugs.
You'll change it around.
But we're bringing, say, five, six hundred staff into this building.
readers anything in a day up to a thousand to two thousand readers in um we can only by being here in for that change we only can be part of that and sandwich sandwich bars currently there are only two in this area which is reasonable we've looked on all this down we were looking at actually no no no and meals is quite good they've started to bring up in london and um they they do quite traditional
Irish and English food, and they're quite good.
But when you're at the back of the site and you only get an hour or you want a sandwich, you don't want to come all the way down here and walk.
So with all that, and all the visitors are going to be coming into the building.
I mean, people are going to want to visit the building out of sheer curiosity to see what's been going on behind the doors.
It will behoove the city to clean up the area.
Just the same way they did with Times Square in New York.
There is a big project on the King's Cross regeneration project.
because part of the channel tunnel link is going to be coming into the back here as well.
So there's going to be big stories and go out there.
We have Euston, the Pancras station here, Euston station just a bit further up.
Just a bit further up, of course, is King's Cross.
They're all within five, seven minute walk of each other mainline stations.
There are tube stations at Euston and St Banking's Cross, which have access to the Piccadilly Metropolitan, Victoria.
I think there's five tube lines.
This area is very well served by public transport, and also all the buses.
You can get to the West End.
We can walk to the West End in about 20 minutes.
Well, that's pretty good, yeah.
I mean, to walk to Bloomsbury from here at first, and when I first came here, it was an endless walk down to the British Museum.
It only takes 20 minutes.
It's actually quite a pleasant walk and you develop your own little route.
Sometimes I quite look forward to my little outing to go down to Gloom through a couple of times a week.
So I think generally this area will start to come up.
There's arches a bit further along here.
You know, somebody gets somebody to open a wine bar or a restaurant or something.
It'll happen.
And I think it will happen.
We'll come back in, say, 10 years.
I think it'll be less than that.
Maybe, yeah.
When there's a will to do it.
I mean, Times Square in New York is a perfect example.
They're totally turning that around, because they want to turn it around, and they don't have anything real like it from scratch.
I think in years to come, the library will not be judged on its building.
It will be judged on how we've looked after the national collection of books and literature, very much so.
And the controversy over the latest rule we've got, and because people will be able to come in,
and use material preserved four or five times as long as it would have been in other cases.
But first we have to make this wonderful structure.
Yes.
For that to happen.
And it's not what the building looks like on the outside.
It sounds very twee and corny.
It's going to be the services that we're going to be able to provide to our users, to the readers, and to the public, which this building is going to be able to facilitate.
It's for that to happen.
I'm going to see out here.
I don't know why you used all these with, like, cracks in.
This is actually the strongest part of the stone.
Over the years, where water has seeped through, it's created a natural fissure in the rock, which is actually the strongest part within the stone.
So it has symbolic value for him, in other words.
What kind of stone is this?
This is Horton's stone.
Yeah, over the hundreds of thousands of years, water seeping in through... And carrying minerals and sediments that make it stronger.
Yeah, make that action the strongest part of the study.